---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "raito_grant Resource - terraform-provider-raito"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The resource for representing a Raito Grant https://docs.raito.io/docs/cloud/access_management/grants access control.
---

# raito_grant (Resource)

The resource for representing a Raito [Grant](https://docs.raito.io/docs/cloud/access_management/grants) access control.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "raito_datasource" "ds" {
  name = "exampleDS"
}

resource "raito_grant" "grant1" {
  name        = "First grant"
  description = "A simple grant"
  state       = "Active"
  who = [
    {
      user : "user1@company.com"
    },
    {
      user : "user2@company.com"
      promise_duration : 604800
    }
  ]
  type = "role"
  data_source = [
    {
      data_source : raito_datasource.ds.id
      type : "role"
    }
  ]
  what_data_objects = {
    data_object : [
      {
        name : "data_object1"
        permissions : ["SELECT", "INSERT"]
        global_permissions : []
      },
      {
        name : "data_object2"
        global_permissions : ["READ"]
      }
    ]
  }
}

resource "raito_grant" "grant_purpose1" {
  name        = "Grant2"
  description = "Grant with inherited who"
  category    = "purpose"
  state       = "Active"
  who = [
    {
      access_control = raito_grant.grant1.id
    }
  ]
  data_source = [
    {
      data_source : raito_datasource.ds.id
      type : "role"
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data_source` (Attributes Set) The ID of the data source of the grant (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--data_source))
- `name` (String) The name of the grant

### Optional

- `category` (String) The ID of the category of the grant
- `description` (String) The description of the grant
- `inheritance_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who access providers are set.
- `owners` (Set of String) User id of the owners of this grant
- `state` (String) The state of the grant Possible values are: ["Active", "Inactive"]
- `what_abac_rule` (Attributes) What data object defined by abac rule. Cannot be set when what_data_objects is set. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_abac_rule))
- `what_data_objects` (Attributes Set) The data object what items associated to the grant. When this is not set (nil), the what list will not be overridden. This is typically used when this should be managed from Raito Cloud. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_data_objects))
- `what_locked` (Boolean) Indicates whether it should lock the what. Should be set to true if what_data_objects or what_abac_rule is set.
- `who` (Attributes Set) The who-items associated with the grant. When this is not set (nil), the who-list will not be overridden. This is typically used when this should be managed from Raito Cloud. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--who))
- `who_abac_rule` (String) json representation of the abac rule for who-items associated with the grant
- `who_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who users, who groups, or who_abac_rule is set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the grant

<a id="nestedatt--data_source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `data_source`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source of the grant

Optional:

- `type` (String) The implementation type of the grant for this data source


<a id="nestedatt--what_abac_rule"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_abac_rule`

Required:

- `do_types` (Set of String) Set of data object types associated to the abac rule
- `rule` (String) json representation of the abac rule
- `scope` (Set of String) Scope of the defined abac rule

Optional:

- `global_permissions` (Set of String) Set of global permissions that should be granted on the matching data object. Allowed values are [READ WRITE ADMIN]
- `permissions` (Set of String) Set of permissions that should be granted on the matching data object


<a id="nestedatt--what_data_objects"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_data_objects`

Required:

- `data_source` (String) The data source of the data object
- `fullname` (String) The full name of the data object in the data source

Optional:

- `global_permissions` (Set of String) The set of global permissions granted to the data object. Allowed values are [READ WRITE ADMIN]
- `permissions` (Set of String) The set of permissions granted to the data object


<a id="nestedatt--who"></a>
### Nested Schema for `who`

Optional:

- `access_control` (String) The ID of the access control in Raito Cloud. Cannot be set if `user` or `group` is set.
- `group` (String) The ID of the group in Raito Cloud. This cannot be set if `user` or `access_control` is set.
- `promise_duration` (Number) Specify this to indicate that this who-item is a promise instead of a direct grant. This is specified as the number of seconds that access should be granted when requested.
- `user` (String) The email address of the user. This cannot be set if `group` or `access_control` is set.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#Import grant. Not that who and what_data_objects will not be imported
terraform import raito_grant.example GrantId
```
