---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "raito_mask Resource - terraform-provider-raito"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The resource for representing a Raito Column Mask https://docs.raito.io/docs/cloud/access_management/masks access control.
---

# raito_mask (Resource)

The resource for representing a Raito [Column Mask](https://docs.raito.io/docs/cloud/access_management/masks) access control.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "raito_datasource" "ds" {
  name = "exampleDS"
}

resource "raito_mask" "example" {
  name        = "A Raito Mask"
  description = "A simple mask"
  state       = "Active"
  who = [
    {
      user : "user1@company.com"
    },
  ]
  type        = "SHA256"
  data_source = raito_datasource.ds.id
  columns = [
    "SOME_DB.SOME_SCHEMA.SOME_TABLE.SOME_COLUMN"
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `data_source` (String) The ID of the data source of the mask
- `name` (String) The name of the mask

### Optional

- `columns` (Set of String) The full name of columns that should be included in the mask. Items are managed by Raito Cloud if columns is not set (nil).
- `description` (String) The description of the mask
- `inheritance_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who access providers are set.
- `owners` (Set of String) User id of the owners of this mask
- `state` (String) The state of the mask Possible values are: ["Active", "Inactive"]
- `type` (String) The masking method, which defines how the data is masked. Available types are defined by the data source.
- `what_abac_rule` (Attributes) What data object defined by abac rule. Cannot be set when what_data_objects is set. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--what_abac_rule))
- `what_locked` (Boolean) Indicates whether it should lock the what. Should be set to true if columns or what_abac_rule is set.
- `who` (Attributes Set) The who-items associated with the mask. When this is not set (nil), the who-list will not be overridden. This is typically used when this should be managed from Raito Cloud. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--who))
- `who_abac_rule` (String) json representation of the abac rule for who-items associated with the mask
- `who_locked` (Boolean) Indicates if who should be locked. This should be true if who users, who groups, or who_abac_rule is set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the mask

<a id="nestedatt--what_abac_rule"></a>
### Nested Schema for `what_abac_rule`

Required:

- `rule` (String) json representation of the abac rule

Optional:

- `scope` (Set of String) Scope of the defined abac rule


<a id="nestedatt--who"></a>
### Nested Schema for `who`

Optional:

- `access_control` (String) The ID of the access control in Raito Cloud. Cannot be set if `user` or `group` is set.
- `group` (String) The ID of the group in Raito Cloud. This cannot be set if `user` or `access_control` is set.
- `promise_duration` (Number) Specify this to indicate that this who-item is a promise instead of a direct grant. This is specified as the number of seconds that access should be granted when requested.
- `user` (String) The email address of the user. This cannot be set if `group` or `access_control` is set.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#Import mask. Not that who and columns will not be imported
terraform import raito_mask.example MaskId
```
